README.md, before:

# NYU DevOps Project - Wishlists

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Python-blue.svg)](https://python.org/)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions/workflows/bdd-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions/workflows/tdd-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/graph/badge.svg?token=JGW5DT9NKN)](https://codecov.io/gh/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists)

## Overview
This project implements the wishlists service, which allows customers to make a collection of products that they wish they had the money to purchase. The service includes a REST API that provides CRUD operations for managing wishlists and wishlist items.

## Contents
The project contains the following:

```text
.gitignore          - this will ignore vagrant and other metadata files
.flaskenv           - Environment variables to configure Flask
.gitattributes      - File to gix Windows CRLF issues
.devcontainers/     - Folder with support for VSCode Remote Containers
dot-env-example     - copy to .env to use environment variables
pyproject.toml      - Poetry list of Python libraries required by your code

service/                   - service python package
├── __init__.py            - package initializer
├── config.py              - configuration parameters
├── routes.py              - module with service routes
├── models                 - module with business models
    |── __init__.py        - package initializer
    |── persistent_base.py - Base class
    |── wishlist_item.py   - Item class
    |── wishlist.py        - Wishlist class
└── common                 - common code package
    ├── cli_commands.py    - Flask command to recreate all tables
    ├── error_handlers.py  - HTTP error handling code
    ├── log_handlers.py    - logging setup code
    └── status.py          - HTTP status constants

tests/                     - test cases package
├── __init__.py            - package initializer
├── factories.py           - Factory for testing with fake objects
├── test_cli_commands.py   - test suite for the CLI
├── test_models.py         - test suite for business models
└── test_routes.py         - test suite for service routes
```
## API Endpoints
The wishlists service provides the following API endpoints:

| Operation                         | Method | URL                                                    |
|-----------------------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------    |
| **List all wishlists**            | GET    | `/wishlists`                                           |
| **Return Health Status**          | GET    | `/health`                                              |
| **Create a wishlist**             | POST   | `/wishlists`                                           |
| **Read a wishlist**               | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}`                                      |
| **Update a wishlist**             | PUT    | `/wishlists/{id}`                                      |
| **Delete a wishlist**             | DELETE | `/wishlists/{id}`                                      |
| **List all items in a wishlist**  | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}/items`                                |
| **Create an item in a wishlist**  | POST   | `/wishlists/{id}/items`                                |
| **Read an item in a wishlist**    | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}/items/{id}`                           |
| **Update an item in a wishlist**  | PUT    | `/wishlists/{id}/items/{id}`                           |
| **Delete an item in a wishlist**  | DELETE | `/wishlists/{id}/items/{id}`                           |
| **Search for wishlists**          | GET    | `/wishlists?attribute=value`                           |
| **Sort wishlists**                | GET    | `/wishlists?sort_by=attribute&order=value`             |
| **Search items in a wishlist**    | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}/items?attribute=value`                |
| **Delete all wishlists**          | DELETE | `/customers/{id}/wishlists`                            |
| **Move a item between wishlists** | PUT    | `/wishlists/{source_id}/items/{id}/move-to/{target_id}`|

## Running the Tests

To run the tests for this project, you can use the following command:

```bash
make test
```

This command will run the test suite using `pytest` and ensure that all the tests pass.

## Running the Service Locally

To run the wishlists service locally, you can use the following command:

```bash
honcho start
```

The service will start and be accessible at `http://localhost:8000`.

## Deploy on Kubernetes Locally
To deploy the shopcarts service on Kubernetes locally, follow these steps:

## Run

## License

Copyright (c) 2016, 2024 [John Rofrano](https://www.linkedin.com/in/JohnRofrano/). All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE)

This repository is part of the New York University (NYU) masters class: **CSCI-GA.2820-001 DevOps and Agile Methodologies** created and taught by [John Rofrano](https://cs.nyu.edu/~rofrano/), Adjunct Instructor, NYU Courant Institute, Graduate Division, Computer Science, and NYU Stern School of Business.

Commit message:

add deployment and swagger sections

README.md, after:

# NYU DevOps Project - Wishlists

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Language-Python-blue.svg)](https://python.org/)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions/workflows/bdd-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions/workflows/tdd-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists/graph/badge.svg?token=JGW5DT9NKN)](https://codecov.io/gh/CSCI-GA-2820-SU24-001/wishlists)

## Overview
This project implements the wishlists service, which allows customers to make a collection of products that they wish they had the money to purchase. The service includes a REST API that provides CRUD operations for managing wishlists and wishlist items.

## Contents
The project contains the following:

```text
.gitignore          - this will ignore vagrant and other metadata files
.flaskenv           - Environment variables to configure Flask
.gitattributes      - File to gix Windows CRLF issues
.devcontainers/     - Folder with support for VSCode Remote Containers
dot-env-example     - copy to .env to use environment variables
pyproject.toml      - Poetry list of Python libraries required by your code

service/                   - service python package
├── __init__.py            - package initializer
├── config.py              - configuration parameters
├── routes.py              - module with service routes
├── models                 - module with business models
    |── __init__.py        - package initializer
    |── persistent_base.py - Base class
    |── wishlist_item.py   - Item class
    |── wishlist.py        - Wishlist class
└── common                 - common code package
    ├── cli_commands.py    - Flask command to recreate all tables
    ├── error_handlers.py  - HTTP error handling code
    ├── log_handlers.py    - logging setup code
    └── status.py          - HTTP status constants

tests/                     - test cases package
├── __init__.py            - package initializer
├── factories.py           - Factory for testing with fake objects
├── test_cli_commands.py   - test suite for the CLI
├── test_models.py         - test suite for business models
└── test_routes.py         - test suite for service routes
```
## API Endpoints
The wishlists service provides the following API endpoints:

| Operation                         | Method | URL                                                    |
|-----------------------------------|--------|----------------------------------------------------    |
| **List all wishlists**            | GET    | `/wishlists`                                           |
| **Return Health Status**          | GET    | `/health`                                              |
| **Create a wishlist**             | POST   | `/wishlists`                                           |
| **Read a wishlist**               | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}`                                      |
| **Update a wishlist**             | PUT    | `/wishlists/{id}`                                      |
| **Delete a wishlist**             | DELETE | `/wishlists/{id}`                                      |
| **List all items in a wishlist**  | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}/items`                                |
| **Create an item in a wishlist**  | POST   | `/wishlists/{id}/items`                                |
| **Read an item in a wishlist**    | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}/items/{id}`                           |
| **Update an item in a wishlist**  | PUT    | `/wishlists/{id}/items/{id}`                           |
| **Delete an item in a wishlist**  | DELETE | `/wishlists/{id}/items/{id}`                           |
| **Search for wishlists**          | GET    | `/wishlists?attribute=value`                           |
| **Sort wishlists**                | GET    | `/wishlists?sort_by=attribute&order=value`             |
| **Search items in a wishlist**    | GET    | `/wishlists/{id}/items?attribute=value`                |
| **Delete all wishlists**          | DELETE | `/customers/{id}/wishlists`                            |
| **Move a item between wishlists** | PUT    | `/wishlists/{source_id}/items/{id}/move-to/{target_id}`|

## Running the Tests

To run the tests for this project, you can use the following command:

```bash
make test
```

This command will run the test suite using `pytest` and ensure that all the tests pass.

## Running the Service Locally

To run the wishlists service locally, you can use the following command:

```bash
honcho start
```

The service will start and be accessible at `http://localhost:8000`.

## Deploy on Kubernetes Locally
To deploy the shopcarts service on Kubernetes locally, follow these steps:
* Create a Kubernetes cluster:
```bash
make cluster
```
* Build the Docker image:
```bash
docker build -t wishlists:latest .
```
* Tag the docker image:
```bash
docker tag wishlists:latest cluster-registry:32000/wishlists:latest
```
* Push the Docker image to the cluster registry:
```bash
docker push cluster-registry:32000/wishlists:latest
```
* Apply the Kubernetes configurations:
```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s/
```
The service will start and be accessible at `http://localhost:8080`.

## Openshift Deployment
The wishlists service is also deployed using an OpenShift pipeline. The deployed application can be accessed at the following URL:

https://wishlists-tw2770-dev.apps.sandbox-m2.ll9k.p1.openshiftapps.com/

## Swagger API Documentation
The wishlists service includes Swagger API documentation to help you understand and interact with the API. You can access the Swagger UI at the `/apidocs` endpoint of the deployed service.

## License

Copyright (c) 2016, 2024 [John Rofrano](https://www.linkedin.com/in/JohnRofrano/). All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE)

This repository is part of the New York University (NYU) masters class: **CSCI-GA.2820-001 DevOps and Agile Methodologies** created and taught by [John Rofrano](https://cs.nyu.edu/~rofrano/), Adjunct Instructor, NYU Courant Institute, Graduate Division, Computer Science, and NYU Stern School of Business.
